README.md, before:

# Llama Terminal Completion

This Python script interacts with the [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp) library to provide virtual assistant capabilities through the command line. It allows you to ask questions and receive intelligent responses, as well as generate Linux commands based on your prompts.



## Installation

### Llama.cpp installation
1. Clone the 'llama.cpp' repository to your local machine
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ggerganov/llama-cpp.git
```
2. Build the llama.cpp library by following the instructions in the llama-cpp repository. A good tutorial for this can be found at [How to Run LLMs Locally](https://wandb.ai/capecape/LLMs/reports/How-to-Run-LLMs-Locally--Vmlldzo0Njg5NzMx)

### Llama Terminal Completion installation
1. Clone the llama-terminal-completion repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/adammpkins/llama-terminal-completion.git
```
2. Set up the environment variables (see below)


### Environment Variables

Before using this script, you need to set up the `LLAMA_COMPLETION_DIR` and `LLAMA_CPP_DIR` environment variables. These variables point to the directories where the completion and `llama.cpp` files are located, respectively. You can set these variables in your shell configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`) like this:

```bash
export LLAMA_COMPLETION_DIR="/path/to/llama-terminal-completion/"
export LLAMA_CPP_DIR="/path/to/llama-cpp/"
```
Replace /path/to/llama-terminal-completion/ and /path/to/llama-cpp/ with the actual paths to the respective directories on your system.

## Usage
Open a terminal window.

Navigate to the directory where the ask_llama.py script is located.

Run the script with the desired options. Here are some examples:

- To generate a Linux command based on a prompt:
    ```bash
    python3 ask_llama.py "list the contents of the current directory"
    ```
- To ask a question to the virtual assistant:

    ```bash
    python3 ask_llama.py -q "How does photosynthesis work?"
    ```
- To clear the history of commands:
    
```bash
python3 ask_llama.py -ch
```

For more options, you can run:

```bash
python3 ask_llama.py --help
```
It's output is as follows:
    
```bash
Usage: python3 ask_llama.py [prompt]
Example: python3 ask_llama.py 'list all files in the current directory'
Options:
-q                ask a question to the virtual assistant
-ch               clear the history of commands
-cqh              clear the history of questions
-h                show the history of commands
-qh               show the history of questions
-v                show the version of llama-terminal-completion
--help            show this help message and exit
```

## Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! Feel free to fork the repository, make changes, and submit pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Added section in readme on adding an alias

README.md, after:

# Llama Terminal Completion

This Python script interacts with the [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp) library to provide virtual assistant capabilities through the command line. It allows you to ask questions and receive intelligent responses, as well as generate Linux commands based on your prompts.



## Installation

### Llama.cpp installation
1. Clone the 'llama.cpp' repository to your local machine
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ggerganov/llama-cpp.git
```
2. Build the llama.cpp library by following the instructions in the llama-cpp repository. A good tutorial for this can be found at [How to Run LLMs Locally](https://wandb.ai/capecape/LLMs/reports/How-to-Run-LLMs-Locally--Vmlldzo0Njg5NzMx)

### Llama Terminal Completion installation
1. Clone the llama-terminal-completion repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/adammpkins/llama-terminal-completion.git
```
2. Set up the environment variables (see below)


### Environment Variables

Before using this script, you need to set up the `LLAMA_COMPLETION_DIR` and `LLAMA_CPP_DIR` environment variables. These variables point to the directories where the completion and `llama.cpp` files are located, respectively. You can set these variables in your shell configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`) like this:

```bash
export LLAMA_COMPLETION_DIR="/path/to/llama-terminal-completion/"
export LLAMA_CPP_DIR="/path/to/llama-cpp/"
```
Replace /path/to/llama-terminal-completion/ and /path/to/llama-cpp/ with the actual paths to the respective directories on your system.

## Usage
Open a terminal window.

Navigate to the directory where the ask_llama.py script is located.

Run the script with the desired options. Here are some examples:

- To generate a Linux command based on a prompt:
    ```bash
    python3 ask_llama.py "list the contents of the current directory"
    ```
- To ask a question to the virtual assistant:

    ```bash
    python3 ask_llama.py -q "How does photosynthesis work?"
    ```
- To clear the history of commands:
    
```bash
python3 ask_llama.py -ch
```

For more options, you can run:

```bash
python3 ask_llama.py --help
```
It's output is as follows:
    
```bash
Usage: python3 ask_llama.py [prompt]
Example: python3 ask_llama.py 'list all files in the current directory'
Options:
-q                ask a question to the virtual assistant
-ch               clear the history of commands
-cqh              clear the history of questions
-h                show the history of commands
-qh               show the history of questions
-v                show the version of llama-terminal-completion
--help            show this help message and exit
```

### Alias
You can create an alias for the script in your shell configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`) like this:

```bash
alias ask="python3 /path/to/llama-terminal-completion/ask_llama.py"
```

Then you can run the script like this:

```bash
ask "list the contents of the current directory"
```

## Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! Feel free to fork the repository, make changes, and submit pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
